✨ Add docs with example of cursor based pagination (#1514)
strawberry-graphql/strawberry: docs/guides/pagination.md

# Pagination

> Pagination is a common use case in APIs to efficiently return some results of a relationship instead of all of them, since that may be unperformant.
> 
> GraphQL as a spec [recommends cursor based pagination](https://graphql.org/learn/pagination/) and refers to [Relay's Connection Spec](https://relay.dev/graphql/connections.htm) for specific implementation details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APIs commonly use pagination to efficiently return a portion of a result instead
of every single item, which can have inefficient performance. 

The GraphQL spec [recommends cursor-based pagination](https://graphql.org/learn/pagination/) 
and refers to [Relay's Connection Spec](https://relay.dev/graphql/connections.htm)
for specific implementation details.
```

Here we show a minimal example of how you can leverage Strawberry's generic Types
to build the types required to comply with the relay spec.

```python

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

import base64
from typing import List, Generic, TypeVar, Optional

import strawberry
from strawberry.arguments import UNSET

> GenericType = TypeVar("T")  # type: ignore warning as 'T' is too succint to be meaningful for humans

Reviewer: I think using `T` is common enough this isn't an issue

Author: Let me disagree on this one, it's common when you have dealed with generic types and type hinting, but
for a tutorial aimed for begginers, i prefer to avoid acronyms and be specific on what this line does

@strawberry.type
class Connection(Generic[GenericType]):
    """Represents a paginated relationship between two entities

>     This pattern is using when the relationship itself has attributes.
>     In the facebook domain for example, a friendship between two persons
>     would be a connection that might have a friendshipStartTime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This pattern is used when the relationship itself has attributes.
    In a Facebook-based domain example, a friendship between two people
    would be a connection that might have a `friendshipStartTime`
```

    """

>     page_info: 'PageInfo'

Reviewer: Can you change the strings to use double quotes by default (in line with the `black` formatting we use in the code-base)?

    edges: list['Edge[GenericType]']

@strawberry.type
class PageInfo:
    """Pagination context to navigate objects with cursor-based pagination

    Instead of a page and per_page one has a cursor of the last object

>     and fetches item starting from that one

Reviewer: Not sure what 
> Instead of a page and per_page one

means

Author: Rephrased, let me know if it's more clear

    Read more at:
        - https://graphql.org/learn/pagination/#pagination-and-edges
        - https://relay.dev/graphql/connections.htm
    """
    has_next_page: bool
    has_previous_page: bool
    start_cursor: Optional[str]
    end_cursor: Optional[str]

@strawberry.type
class Edge(Generic[GenericType]):
    """An edge may contain additional information of the relationship. This is the trivial case"""
    node: GenericType
    cursor: str

@strawberry.type
class Book:
    title: str
    author: str

    @classmethod
    def from_db_model(cls, instance):
        """Adapt this method with logic to map your orm instance to a strawberry decorated class"""
        return cls(title=instance.title, author=instance.title)

def build_book_cursor(book: Book):

>     """Adapt this method to build an *opaque* id from an instance"""

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    """Adapt this method to build an *opaque* ID from an instance"""
```

Reviewer: Do we need to explain what "opaque" means?

Author: Perhaps, if they read the graphql reference or the relay one at the top they should know what it means.

Reviewer: Can we turn the word into a link to where it's defined better?

    bookid = f'{id(book)}'.encode('utf-8')
    return base64.b64encode(bookid).decode()

> Cursor = str

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cursor: TypeAlias = str
```

Reviewer: This will need an import from `typing_extensions` for backwards compat with 3.7

Author: I don't think there's much to gain with type hinting this variable

Reviewer: At minimum, it makes linters stop complaining about the variable being capitalized

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't care too much for the docs 😊

def get_books(first: int = 10, after: Optional[Cursor] = UNSET) -> Connection[Book]:
    """

>     A non-trivial implementation should efficiently fetch only
>     the books after the offset and only first ones.
>     For simplicity, here we build the list and then slice it accordingly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A non-trivial implementation should efficiently query a database to fetch only
    the necessary books after the offset.
    For simplicity, here we build the list and then slice it accordingly
```

Author: I rephrased it with your suggestion, but one could implement pagination without querying a database directly. For example it could be a grpc call or an http request. I wouldn't suggest here that's the only way to do it and leave it to the user to decide

    """
    after = after if after is not UNSET else None

    # Fetch the requested books plus one, just to calculate `has_next_page`
    books = [
        Book(
            title=f'Title {x}',
            author=f'Author {x}',
        )
        for x in range(20)
    ][after:first+1]

    edges = [
        Edge(node=Book.from_db_model(book), cursor=build_book_cursor(book))
        for book in books
    ]

    return Connection(
        page_info=PageInfo(
            has_previous_page=False,
            has_next_page=len(books) > first,
            start_cursor=edges[0].cursor if edges else None,
            end_cursor=edges[-2].cursor if len(edges) > 1 else None,
        ),
        edges=edges[:-1]  # exclude last one as it was fetched to know if there is a next page
    )

@strawberry.type
class Query:
    books: List[Book] = strawberry.field(resolver=get_books)

schema = strawberry.Schema(query=Query)
```

Name your file `pagination.py` and run `strawberry server pagination`

> When you visit the graphql url on your terminal you should see something like this
> <img src="../images/pagination-graphiql-screenshot.png" alt="A view of the GraphiQL interface with a example pagination query"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you visit the GraphQL URL from your terminal output, you should see something like this:
<img src="../images/pagination-graphiql-screenshot.png" alt="A view of the GraphiQL interface with an example pagination query"/>
```
